documentation/tutorials/index.md, before:

# TensorFlow Decision Forests tutorials

The following notebooks are available:

-   [Beginner Colab](beginner_colab.ipynb): Learn about the basic about model
    training, evaluation and exportation.
-   [Ranking Colab](ranking_colab.ipynb): Learn about ranking with decision
    forests.
-   [Intermediate Colab](intermediate_colab.ipynb): How to consume text and
    combine decision forest with neural networks.
-   [Advanced Colab](advanced_colab.ipynb): How to inspect and create model
    structures directly.
-   [Model composition Colab](model_composition_colab.ipynb): How to compose
    decision forests and neural networks together.
-   [Proximities and Prototypes with Random Forests](proximities_colab.ipynb):
    Measure the distance between tabular examples and use it to understand a
    model and its predictions.
-   [Automatic hyper-parameter tuning](automatic_tuning_colab.ipynb):
    Automatically select the best hyper-parameters for a model.
-   [Making predictions](predict_colab.ipynb): List of options to make
    predictions with a model.

Commit message:

Add a (colab) tutorial for visualizing decision forest trees using dtreeviz library.
PiperOrigin-RevId: 514463475

documentation/tutorials/index.md, after:

# TensorFlow Decision Forests tutorials

The following notebooks are available:

-   [Beginner Colab](beginner_colab.ipynb): Learn about the basic about model
    training, evaluation and exportation.
-   [Visualizing Trees](dtreeviz_colab.ipynb): How to visualize and
    interpret decision trees using [dtreeviz](https://github.com/parrt/dtreeviz).
-   [Ranking Colab](ranking_colab.ipynb): Learn about ranking with decision
    forests.
-   [Intermediate Colab](intermediate_colab.ipynb): How to consume text and
    combine decision forest with neural networks.
-   [Advanced Colab](advanced_colab.ipynb): How to inspect and create model
    structures directly.
-   [Model composition Colab](model_composition_colab.ipynb): How to compose
    decision forests and neural networks together.
-   [Proximities and Prototypes with Random Forests](proximities_colab.ipynb):
    Measure the distance between tabular examples and use it to understand a
    model and its predictions.
-   [Automatic hyper-parameter tuning](automatic_tuning_colab.ipynb):
    Automatically select the best hyper-parameters for a model.
-   [Making predictions](predict_colab.ipynb): List of options to make
    predictions with a model.
