documentation/tensorflow_serving.md, before:

# TensorFlow Decision Forests and TensorFlow Serving

[TensorFlow Serving](https://www.tensorflow.org/tfx/guide/serving) (TF Serving)
is a tool to run TensorFlow models online in large production settings using a
RPC or REST API. TensorFlow Decision Forests (TF-DF) is supported natively by TF
Serving >=2.11.

**Warning:** TensorFlow Serving only support natively TensorFlow Decision
Forests since version 2.11. Until TF Serving 2.11 is release, use the Until the
version In the *TensorFlow Serving 2.11 Nightly* or
[own pre-compiled version](https://github.com/tensorflow/decision-forests/releases/tag/serving-1.0.1)
of TensorFlow Serving. Prior versions of TF Serving (e.g. TF Serving 2.8-2.10)
are compatible with TF-DF. However, they requires to be *re-compiled* with TF-DF
support
([instructions](https://github.com/tensorflow/decision-forests/blob/main/documentation/tensorflow_serving.md#compile-tf-seringtf-decision-forests-from-source)).

TF-DF models are directly compatible with TF Serving. Yggdrasil models can be
used with TF Serving after being
[converted](https://ydf.readthedocs.io/en/latest/convert_model.html#convert-a-yggdrasil-model-to-a-tensorflow-decision-forests-model)
first.

## Limitations

TensorFlow adds a significant amount of computation overhead. For small latency
sensitive models (e.g., models running is less than 1µs), this overhead can be
an order of magnitude larger the cost of the model itself. In this case, it is
recommended to run the TF-DF models with
[Yggdrasil Decision Forests](https://ydf.readthedocs.io).

## Usage example

The following example shows how to run a TF-DF model in TF Serving:

First, [install TF Serving](https://github.com/tensorflow/serving#set-up). In
this example, we will use a pre-compiled version of TF-Serving + TF-DF.

```shell
# Download TF Serving
wget https://github.com/tensorflow/decision-forests/releases/download/serving-1.0.1/tensorflow_model_server_linux.zip
unzip tensorflow_model_server_linux.zip

# Check that TF Serving works.
./tensorflow_model_server --version
```

In this example, we use an already trained TF-DF model trained.

```shell
# Get a TF-DF model
git clone https://github.com/tensorflow/decision-forests.git
MODEL_PATH=$(pwd)/decision-forests/tensorflow_decision_forests/test_data/model/saved_model_adult_gbt

echo "The TF-DF model is available at: ${MODEL_PATH}"
```

**Notes:** TF-Serving requires the model's full path. This is why we use
`$(pwd)`.

TF-Serving supports model versioning. The model should be contained in a
directory whose name is the version of the model. A model version is an integer
e.g., "1". Here is a typical directory for TF-Serving.

-   `/path/to/model`
    -   `1` : Version 1 of the model
    -   `5` : Version 5 of the model
    -   `6` : Version 6 of the model

For this example, we only need to put the model in a directory called "1".

```shell
mkdir -p /tmp/tf_serving_model
cp -R "${MODEL_PATH}" /tmp/tf_serving_model/1
```

Now, we can start TF-Sering on the model.

```shell
./tensorflow_model_server \
    --rest_api_port=8502 \
    --model_name=my_model \
    --model_base_path=/tmp/tf_serving_model
```

Finally, you can send a request to TF Serving using the Rest API. Two formats
are available: predict+instances API and predict+inputs API. Here is an example
of each of them:

```shell
# Predictions with the predict+instances API.
curl http://localhost:8502/v1/models/my_model:predict -X POST \
    -d '{"instances": [{"age":39,"workclass":"State-gov","fnlwgt":77516,"education":"Bachelors","education_num":13,"marital_status":"Never-married","occupation":"Adm-clerical","relationship":"Not-in-family","race":"White","sex":"Male","capital_gain":2174,"capital_loss":0,"hours_per_week":40,"native_country":"United-States"}]}'
```

```shell
# Predictions with the predict+inputs API
curl http://localhost:8502/v1/models/my_model:predict -X POST \
    -d '{"inputs": {"age":[39],"workclass":["State-gov"],"fnlwgt":[77516],"education":["Bachelors"],"education_num":[13],"marital_status":["Never-married"],"occupation":["Adm-clerical"],"relationship":["Not-in-family"],"race":["White"],"sex":["Male"],"capital_gain":[2174],"capital_loss":[0],"hours_per_week":[40],"native_country":["United-States"]}}'
```

Commit message:

Update TF-Serving documentation
PiperOrigin-RevId: 495534486

documentation/tensorflow_serving.md, after:

# TensorFlow Decision Forests and TensorFlow Serving

[TensorFlow Serving](https://www.tensorflow.org/tfx/guide/serving) (TF Serving)
is a tool to run TensorFlow models online in large production settings using a
RPC or REST API. TensorFlow Decision Forests (TF-DF) is supported natively by TF
Serving >=2.11.

TF-DF models are directly compatible with TF Serving. Yggdrasil models can be
used with TF Serving after being
[converted](https://ydf.readthedocs.io/en/latest/convert_model.html#convert-a-yggdrasil-model-to-a-tensorflow-decision-forests-model)
first.

## Limitations

TensorFlow adds a significant amount of computation overhead. For small, latency
sensitive models (e.g., model inference time ~1µs), this overhead can be
an order of magnitude larger than time needed by the model itself.
In this case, it is recommended to run the TF-DF models with
[Yggdrasil Decision Forests](https://ydf.readthedocs.io).

## Usage example

The following example shows how to run a TF-DF model in TF Serving:

First, [install TF Serving](https://github.com/tensorflow/serving#set-up). In
this example, we will use a pre-compiled version of TF-Serving + TF-DF.

```shell
# Download TF Serving
wget https://github.com/tensorflow/decision-forests/releases/download/serving-1.0.1/tensorflow_model_server_linux.zip
unzip tensorflow_model_server_linux.zip

# Check that TF Serving works.
./tensorflow_model_server --version
```

In this example, we use an already trained TF-DF model.

```shell
# Get a TF-DF model
git clone https://github.com/tensorflow/decision-forests.git
MODEL_PATH=$(pwd)/decision-forests/tensorflow_decision_forests/test_data/model/saved_model_adult_gbt

echo "The TF-DF model is available at: ${MODEL_PATH}"
```

**Notes:** TF-Serving requires the model's full path. This is why we use
`$(pwd)`.

TF-Serving supports model versioning. The model should be contained in a
directory whose name is the version of the model. A model version is an integer
e.g., "1". Here is a typical directory for TF-Serving.

-   `/path/to/model`
    -   `1` : Version 1 of the model
    -   `5` : Version 5 of the model
    -   `6` : Version 6 of the model

For this example, we only need to put the model in a directory called "1".

```shell
mkdir -p /tmp/tf_serving_model
cp -R "${MODEL_PATH}" /tmp/tf_serving_model/1
```

Now, we can start TF-Sering on the model.

```shell
./tensorflow_model_server \
    --rest_api_port=8502 \
    --model_name=my_model \
    --model_base_path=/tmp/tf_serving_model
```

Finally, you can send a request to TF Serving using the Rest API. Two formats
are available: predict+instances API and predict+inputs API. Here is an example
of each of them:

```shell
# Predictions with the predict+instances API.
curl http://localhost:8502/v1/models/my_model:predict -X POST \
    -d '{"instances": [{"age":39,"workclass":"State-gov","fnlwgt":77516,"education":"Bachelors","education_num":13,"marital_status":"Never-married","occupation":"Adm-clerical","relationship":"Not-in-family","race":"White","sex":"Male","capital_gain":2174,"capital_loss":0,"hours_per_week":40,"native_country":"United-States"}]}'
```

```shell
# Predictions with the predict+inputs API
curl http://localhost:8502/v1/models/my_model:predict -X POST \
    -d '{"inputs": {"age":[39],"workclass":["State-gov"],"fnlwgt":[77516],"education":["Bachelors"],"education_num":[13],"marital_status":["Never-married"],"occupation":["Adm-clerical"],"relationship":["Not-in-family"],"race":["White"],"sex":["Male"],"capital_gain":[2174],"capital_loss":[0],"hours_per_week":[40],"native_country":["United-States"]}}'
```
